# Genome Sequence Processing Pipeline

This Python script collection is designed to process genome sequences, extract open reading frames (ORFs), convert them into corresponding mRNA sequences, and translate them into amino acid sequences. The pipeline consists of three scripts: `genome2orf.py`, `dna2mrna.py`, and `mrna2aa.py`. These scripts are intended to be used together to process genome data efficiently.

## Usage

### genome2aa_print.sh
This shell script executes the entire workflow. Instead of writing the intermediate files to disk, it prints them to the standard output.

```bash
bash genome2aa_print.sh <genome_file> <feature_table>
```
- <genome_file>: Path to the genome sequence file in FASTA format
- <feature_table>: Path to the feature table associated with the genome

#### Output:
Prints DNA, RNA, and amino acid sequences to the stdout.

### genome2aa_direct.sh
This shell script executes the entire workflow and saves the intermediate files to the specified directory.

```bash 
genome2aa_direct.sh <genome_file> <feature_table> <output_directory>
```
- <genome_file>: Path to the genome sequence file in FASTA format.
- <feature_table>: Path to the feature table associated with the genome.
- <output_directory>: Directory to save the intermediate files.

#### Output:
Saves DNA, RNA, and amino acid sequences to the specified output directory.

### genome2orf.py

This script extracts open reading frames (ORFs) from a genome sequence file in FASTA format and its corresponding feature table. It filters features of the class "CDS" and extracts ORFs accordingly.

```bash
python genome2orf.py --organism <genome_file> --features <feature_table>
```
- <genome_file>: Path to the genome sequence file in FASTA format
- <feature_table>: Path to the feature table associated with the genome

#### Output:
ORFs in FASTA format with a unique locus tag for each ORF.

### dna2mrna.py

This script converts DNA sequences into mRNA sequences. It takes the output from genome2orf.py as input.

```bash
python dna2mrna.py --fasta <input_file>
```
- <input_file>: Path to the ORF sequences file generated by genome2orf.py

#### Output:
mRNA sequences in FASTA format.

### mrna2aa.py
This script translates mRNA sequences into amino acid sequences (protein sequences). It takes the mRNA sequences generated by dna2mrna.py as input.

```bash
python mrna2aa.py --fasta <input_file>
```
- <input_file>: Path to the mRNA sequences file

#### Output:
Amino acid sequences in FASTA format.

Notes
- Ensure that the input files are correctly formatted. The scripts expect specific formats for genome sequences, feature tables, ORF sequences, and mRNA sequences.
- The output of each script is designed to be compatible with the input of the subsequent script in the pipeline.
- For translation, the scripts handle frame shifts, non-standard bases, and premature stop codons appropriately.
